---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Structure of the Framework

- The `app` directory contains the core application code, including console commands, exception handlers, HTTP-related classes (controllers, middleware, requests, and resources), and models.
- The `bootstrap` directory contains the bootstrap files responsible for bootstrapping the Laravel application.
- The `config` directory contains configuration files for various aspects of the application, such as database connections, caching, session management, etc.
- The `database` directory houses files related to the database, including factories for generating dummy data, migrations for managing database schema changes, and seeders for populating the database with initial data.
- The `public` directory serves as the document root for the application. It contains the front controller (`index.php`) and publicly accessible assets like CSS, JavaScript, and image files.
- The `resources` directory holds non-PHP resources, including JavaScript files, CSS stylesheets, and views (Blade templates) used for rendering HTML.
- The `routes` directory contains route definitions that map URLs to corresponding controllers and actions.
- The `storage` directory is used for storing various types of data generated by the application, such as uploaded files, cached data, logs, etc.
- The `tests` directory houses the application's automated tests. These tests are essential for ensuring the quality and stability of your code.
- The `vendor` directory contains the dependencies installed via Composer. Composer is a dependency management tool for PHP that helps you declare and manage the libraries your project depends on.
- The `.env` file stores environment-specific configuration settings. This file is typically ignored by version control systems (like Git) to avoid committing sensitive information.
- The `artisan` file is the command-line interface for interacting with the Laravel application. You can use Artisan to perform various tasks, such as generating boilerplate code, running migrations, and scheduling commands.
- The `composer.json` file defines the project's dependencies and provides metadata about the application. This file is essential for managing your project's dependencies using Composer.